````yaml
- author: Johanny Titouan
- date: 18/09/2025
- language: English
- subject: Automated Natural Language Processing
- title: Homework 1
- university: University of Montréal
````

# Homework number 1

## Structure

#### The [Output Directory](output)

It contains the output of the various test programs, such as graphs, tables, etc.
It is divided in 4 directories:

- [output/charts](output/charts): contains the generated graphs, mainly from the counting program.
- [output/count](output/count): contains csv tables generated by tests on the counting program..
- [output/bpe](output/bpe): Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) output.
- [output/addons](output/addons): other various outputs.

#### The [Source Directory](src)

It contains the source code of the various programs. The package is named [udem/tj/taln](src/main/java/udem/tj/taln)
It is divided in 5 classes:

- [Count](src/main/java/udem/tj/taln/Count.java): contains the source code of the counting program.
- [BPE](src/main/java/udem/tj/taln/BPE.java): Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) source code.
- [Graph](src/main/java/udem/tj/taln/Graph.java): other various source code.
- [Main](src/main/java/udem/tj/taln/Main.java): main class, executes tests and calls, manages outputs.
- [Utils](src/main/java/udem/tj/taln/Utils.java): various utilities.

JUnit tests are located in the [test](src/test) directory.

The [resource folder](src/main/resources) contains the Wikipedia articles used for the counting program. (Source : Hugging face, Wikipedia CHARS).

#### The [Maven file](pom.xml)

It contains the Maven configuration. Use `mvn clean install` to compile and run the program.

## Explanations

### Word frequencies

The word splitting is done as follows:

1) We split the line (i.e. the Wikipedia article) according to spaces.
2) We remove the following characters:
    - Tabs, quotes, parentheses, square brackets, curly brackets and hyphens. This choice was made for clarity reasons,
      since these characters are not represented orally and linguistically provide little relevant information, their
      presence being only for readability purposes. As a result, so-called "compound" words, which are considered as
      full
      lexemes in linguistics, are joined together by the absence of the hyphen.
    - However, apostrophes, which often represent clitics, are kept, as well as punctuation marks (period, question
      mark, exclamation mark, commas, colons, semicolons).
    - Any digit is replaced with @.
3) Each word is converted to lowercase.
4) If the word is a punctuation mark (comma, etc.) alone, it will be counted as such. If a word contains a punctuation
   mark attached at its end, the word is counted without it and the punctuation mark is counted separately. Finally, a
   word is counted as such if it needs no additional processing. Three dots are considered as a single punctuation mark.

We note that the only common non-alphanumeric symbol in French writing left unprocessed is the apostrophe. Please see
the various output tests for more details.